Once again, introducing myself, I'm an active duty Army Officer, father of TWO. Owner at Machete FNF. Let's get to business.

Here you can find my part 1 below. If you haven't checked it out, I recommend reading this first if you haven't seen it

https://www.reddit.com/r/shoebots/comments/gqnz3l/my_top_10_things_i_wish_i_would_have_known_4/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=ios_app&utm_name=iossmf

Due to the overwhelming and surprising amount of feedback(I still get DMs to this day thanking me for getting them into the scene) I have decided to make a part TWO, since part one(see above) for the most part, is outdated with some things being similar. Here's your updated 2021 Q4 beginner's guide to botting. Once again, disclaimer that this is mainly written for new botters. Here's some talking points not in any particular order, but some tips I'd like to address for anyone coming into the scene.; hopefully I can help answer some frequently asked questions in the subreddit.

1.) Overhead costs - Overhead costs can quickly add up depending on what level you're at. From a basic-beginner to a seasoned veteran; cost can average anywhere between $100-$300 to thousands PER DROP. Depending on what sites you plan to bot, your startup costs can consist of proxies, cost of bot and/or rental, server fees(optional), cookgroup, accounts, other reoccuring renewal etc.

2.) Buying a bot - Botbroker.io is your safest option; however it's far from the cheapest due to fees/taxes. You can save a couple hundred bucks by joining Discord and buying from a trusted marketplace ie Botmart, Tidal, Splash Market. Below is a list of common modules broken down.

Retail bots - Retail botting was once low-key with only a few bots supporting sites such as Amazon, Walmart, Target, etc. It's no surprise that cards, GPUs, PS5s are extremely profitable over the past year; and some might even say more profitable than sneakers/streetwear. Luckily, you can grab a bot (Stellar) for a very low entry price $300>, and get started almost immediately. However keep in mind, there are 1000s of other users running for the exact thing, so technique/setup, proxies, really do play a significant part. That guy that just posted in success and hit a hundred boxes isn't going to reply to your DMs, so do your own diligence and play around with it until it works until it doesn't, and than, do it again. DCs, ISPs, residential proxies required. Depending on site; accounts may be required as well.

Supreme - Yes SS21 is here, and we're moving into week 3. While some AIO options such as Cyber/Wrath/Kodai offer a supreme module, Mekpreme/Velox are your best options and are both attainable under $700-800. However, I'd personally recommend renting one, unless you are a consistent runner, plan to run ACO, and/or like to purchase items for yourself. 1-click gmails, and clean isp/residentials required.

SNKRS - After being clipped for nearly a year, SNKRS botting made an impressive comeback during most of 2021 with TSB amongst others hitting clips. Unfortunately all good things come to an end, and TSB no longer works to my knowledge. However, rentals of Project enigma are available as well as Linear. which both have been doing well recently. I wouldn't recommend SNKRS botting to your beginner, as accounts can be costly. DCs, ISPs, SNKRS accounts required.

YS - Honestly, YS has been the crowd-favorite over the past 6 months if not, longer. Yeezy day just past. Cancellations are still rare; j1gs not really required. and while there has been bot protection improvements to include 3ds verification on particular cards, and ISPs being banned leading to a less aggressive proxy to task ratio, YS remains one of the best sites to bot today. Trickle, Wrath, Velox, are all good options right now. 0.9 gmails, ISPs, or residentials required.

Shopify - Don't expect to hit huge clips but nonetheless, UNDFTD, Kith, CNCPTS among other shopify sites are known to drop heat. Wrath, Balko, Sole are all great options. 1-click gmails,ISPs, or residentials required, accounts depending on site.

Footsites - The throne is past around frequently, while bot protection continues to improve and new bots pop up frequently. For awhile, it was whoever had the latest bypass. Lately it's been the usual hitters all on the same level playing field; Kodai, Wrath, Prism, Kylin have all been doing exceptionally well. While YS might be the favorite, Footsites has to be the most popular site as most drops occur on this platform and footsites modules IMO control the market. Footsites can be extremely frustrating since bot protection changes rapidly, finding working proxies can be difficult, and cancellations/or PVs are frequent and most times you can find yourself losing money in proxies, server costs, and most importantly, time. Kodai, Valor, Wrath all good otpions right now. ISPs, or residentials required.

Buying bots can be financially dangerous. DO NOT buy a bot without doing the proper research and in most times often than not, IF POSSIBLE, I would advise renting over buying due to cost effectiveness, and keeping yourself at low risk. Scams, including exit scams happen more often than you think. Due to frequent changes, Botting can be a cat & mouse game and inconsistent performance is usual. Some devs can quickly adapt, while some simply don't. This creates a very volatile market, with zero market cap, and devs ability to mass generate keys for 3rd party resale, can lead to huge dips and highs.

3.) Cookgroups

If you can think of something profitable, whether it's NFTs, botflipping, stocks, cards, pokemon, etc. there's a group for it. However your basic Cookgroup is all you really need, which offers usually all of that to include the main effort of why most join; Botting. And to be honest with you, MOST info is the same info circulated whether it be skus, release guides, "leaks", monitors, etc. Please don't fall into the hype /PR, and overpay for a group. Can you bot without a cookgroup? Yes. Should you join one? Yes. It will make your life a whole lot easier by saving you time from having to find the info on your own, providing monitors so you are alerted on products restocking, support to get you started, and providing "some" groupbuys that you might not find anywhere else. AK Chefs, AYCD Pro, Hidden Society are all worthy mentions.

4) Proxies/Gmails/Accounts

Again, depending on what module you're botting, these may or may not be required (refer to #2).

When it comes to proxies, while there are some "private" pools, most residential providers come from either netnut, smartproxy, oxylabs, and even packetstream. Lately I have been buying ISPs from Oculus/Red Dirt but there are an abundance of providers so it's mostly individual preference. Over 75% of my running costs are due to proxies; With bot protection, comes along proxy protection meaning your newly purchased ISPs could quickly be banned if ran for extended periods of time and/or low delays. Keep in mind, that many users share the same subnet, so while you may run your particular proxies reserved for you in a disciplined manner, all it takes is one user abusing them to get that entire subnet banned. In order to combat this, private subnets have become extremely popular. This can range in price anywhere from $500-$1400+ which can easily cut into your net profit if you fail to meet the appropriate ROI for that month. ISPs are typically available in daily, weekly or monthly increments.

Gmail/snkrs account providers aren't hard to find; CGs hold groupbuys for each frequently. Keep in mind, gmails/accounts/proxies can be clipped at any time, so there is no "Buy it for Life" in botting unfortunately.

5.) Profiles

Privacy, Virtual Credit Cards (VCC) and employee cards are your best-friend. Do your research on what works for which sites. Footsites/Supreme are still notorious to cancel your hard-earned orders, so take the time to j1g properly. There a variety of opinions on what works and what doesn't. In my experience, it has been 100% random. In addition to credit cards, multiple addresses can be required as YS is notorious for banning your ZIP.

6.) SNKR Twitter

Twitter can be downright entertaining at times and the community isn't too hard to find; just google AYCD Jake. Retweet every single giveaway in hope that you'll catch a free monthly or retail key,( I will not follow you) or catch the latest drama, trend, or cook. After awhile, you'll start noticing your local "botting" celebrities whether they're known for their big clips or their big mouths lol. Networking like other industries, can be huge in this field and can sometimes even lean to your advantage. Friends & Family groups are formed frequently and there's definitely an inner-circle of the community. While it isn't required to cook, networking can certainly help in certain aspects.

7.) Scaleability

Don't expect to immediately hit 100 pairs now that you've purchased your bot regardless of it's known success. Botting can be a casino. MOST if not all, of the big chefs are running multiples upon multiples of the same bot on multiple servers, which requires all the aforementioned resources such as proxies, AWS costs, profiles, gmails, etc. These can quickly add up therefore increasing your risk by plenty. It costs money to make money, and it's not always guaranteed. Due to costs, you may need to hit X amount of pairs in order to break even, which leads me to my next talking point...

8.) Cost effectiveness

Take the time to add your predicted costs of required resources along with your income/monthly budget and ask yourself is this really for you or more importantly, does it make sense? While botting can be highly rewarding, enjoyable, it does require upfront costs. Many seasoned botters have left the scene due to increased difficulty over the last year after botting for the last four. While it can be easy to jump head-first right into it, especially if you have decent liquidity, take it slow by renting a bot, and buying a small amount of proxies to get your feet wet. You may find that it is more cost-effective to purchase a shoe for resell depending on the shoe of course, therefore, I wouldn't recommend botting for those who are looking for strictly personals.

9.) Expectations

While hitting your first clip on a bot may be rewarding, be prepared for a share of Ls. Even some of the most seasoned botters have left their computer with zero pairs to speak for, after spending thousands in running costs. In addition, you may find yourself comparing yourselves to others who are having success, FOMO is a common occurrence, and your eyes being glued to your cookgroup monitors waiting for the next pay-day. This can be very consuming on ones personal life depending on how much time you put into it and your type of personality; botting can be highly addictive and you may always be looking for the next big pay-day. Often times, I found myself frustrated after a failed drop and it can really take a toll on one's mental health. When you think of botting, you picture the flashing checkouts and thousands of dollars and sneakerboxes, however, one that is not often talked about is the risk of money lost and potential impact on ones mental health. Often times there are thousands if not millions of tasks going after a few pairs of shoes, so losses are inevitable. Learn to be resilient and ensure that you don't take this hobby too serious.

10.) In Closing

To end things on a brighter note, I have seen many making money from their homes throughout COVID and present (from age 13/14 to boomers like myself), and botting has been a blessing; I was able to maintain my mother's dry-cleaning business during the shutdown. While I may not bot as often compared to a year ago, I am happy for the life-long friends that I have made within the community and the lessons I've learned about business, has introduced me into other financial ventures that I'm pursuing that has more longevity IMO. I'm hopeful that this guide helps those pursuing botting and act as a starting point to get into the community, if you decide to go that route. I still think there is ton of potential money to be made from botting depending on how much effort or money you're willing to put in. therefore if you've decided to start botting, and it makes sense, than the best time to start is now, whenever now is.
